For my final project, my idea is to recreate the Wordle game that became popular over the past few months. I became very invested in playing this game every day, and I thought it was interesting how such a simple concept could really attract a lot of people. The only thing that I didn’t like about the application was that you could only play one game each day. I wanted to see if I could recreate this game to work as cleanly as the original and also make the change so that you’re not limited to just one word a day. Then hopefully I can play my own game instead of theirs (which also has ads, so that would be an added bonus).

First, I want to be able to implement the game to be played on a console. I think approaching it this way first will allow me to focus on the logic of the game and make sure all the parts are moving correctly. For the first week, I want to be able to implement the structure of the Board itself, which will have 6 rows and 5 columns of Tiles. Each Tile will have an associated color and possibly a letter on it. For the second week, I want to load in a text file of 5-letter English words into some sort of Dictionary object that can be used to get a new word to set up a new game and check if user inputs as guesses are valid. Then by the end of the second week, I hope to have a working console-based game.

For the third week, I’ll work on the Cinder visualization of the game so that the user can input the characters for a word by typing them in from their keyboard and/or clicking a sequence of buttons on the screen. I hope to have the basic display working at the end of the third week so that by week four, I can add some finishing features to the game, including the ability to look at past games and to look at the statistics of all your games played. If I have extra time, another thing that I could try to implement is a way to display a definition of a word after the game is over, so that the app also serves an educational purpose. If I have a lot of extra time, I could also try to implement boards of different sizes that correspond to longer or shorter word lengths.